This is just a bunch of useful javascript snippets written in Prototype and jQuery. Some of them are on my blog, but can easily get lost. Maybe they'll be safe here :^)


h2. Prototype

h3. give-links-leading-up-to-existing-page-active-class.js

This code finds all links that match the URI and add the class "active" to them. It makes showing the user how they got to the page really easy.

  Example URL: http://codequietly.com/projects/websites

* http://codequietly.com/ (active)
* http://codequietly.com/projects (active)
* http://codequietly.com/projects/websites (active)
* http://codequietly.com/contact (no active class)


h3. open-external-links-in-new-window.js

  This file checks if the link's URL originates from the current domain. If it doesn't, the link will open in a new window.

  Example URL: http://codequietly.com

* http://codequietly.com/contact (open in same window)
* ttp://codequietly.com/projects (open in same window)
* http://github.com/daneharrigan (open in new window)

h2. jQuery

h3. remove_classes.js

This is a super simple plugin I made for jQuery. It's just a way to remove multiple classes from an element. I had to remove a few classes from an element and it started to look sloppy.

<pre><code>$(element).removeClass('error');
$(element).removeClass('unavailable');</code></pre>

So I made <code>removeClasses()</code>. I hope it's pretty obvious.

<pre><code>$(element).removeClasses('error','unavailable');</code></pre>

h3. vertically_align.js

This plugin vertically aligns stuff! It looks at the specified element. The element is then styled as <code>position: relative</code> if not already relative or absolute positioned. The height difference between the element and the parent is determined and added to the <code>top</code> value.

<code>$('.entry p', '#header h1').verticallyAlign();</code>